# Hiring---Lead-Software-Engineer-
Location : Bangalore   Years of Experience : 8-10 years (Individual Contributor)   Primary Skills : Core Java, Multithreading, Java/J2ee Technologies etc.   Job Description (Please note this is a generic JD):   • 8-10 years of Software Development Experience • Bachelor’s degree in Engineering in Computer Science/ Electronics or equivalent • Hands-on Experience in Java and J2EE • Good analytical and problem solving skills • Knowledge of SDLC • Good RDBMS concepts. • Experience in Software design and architecture • Experience/ Knowledge of Messaging domain highly preferred • Experience/ Knowledge of Telecom domain highly preferred • Experience in GSM and roaming project implementations • Experience in Linux/Windows operating system concepts and commands • Cross functional group co-ordination experience like QA, Operations, Release Engineering etc. • Experience working with teams in diverse geographic locations • Experience in software design processes and methods • Experience using a source code management tool • Exposure to System architecture  General Summary: This position is responsible building, delivering, enhancing and supporting Products and Services in support of several key disciplines, such as:  J2EE and web based products telecommunications and the cellular industry strategic projects.  The incumbent will possess a good experience and skill across engineering functions. Also has Strong analytical, business logic and problem resolution skills with strong exposure in software design processes and methods. Also work closely with other functional areas to ensure that project schedules are met with a high level of quality. Will also provide technical leadership to the team.  Other responsibilities may include mentoring of team members and the evaluation of new technologies.  Principal Duties and Responsibilities: • Design of software modules conforming to the functional/ integration/ performance/ user experience requirements • Development of software modules conforming to the functional/ performance/ user experience requirements • Development and automation of Functional Tests to demonstrate the conformance of software with the functional/ performance/ user experience requirements • Design &amp; Code Reviews; Analysis and debugging of issues during development • Analysis and Resolution of Production Tickets • Define high level architecture; derive software modules with the integration interfaces • High level Task break-down and associated Level of Effort • Produce technical artifacts and documentation for the software modules • Co-ordination with cross functional teams
